as Vancouver real estate prices hit
astronomical levels the provincial
government decided to impose a 15%
foreign buyers tax this was to slow down
the RedHot market and it seemed to have
a profound effect with all of the
currency still fleeing China every day
where has it been going you came here
for the truth so let me unveil that for
you let's get into this today we're
going to look at real estate we're going
to look at China I also want to mention
a few other things let's get to
it beginning with this article okay
Chinese real estate investment abroad
Rose by more than half to a new high
highlighting the potentially disruptive
impact of tighter Capital controls very
important imposed late in the year to
discourage out money flows can you
believe it overseas investment from
China in residential commercial and
industrial property totaled
33 billion B with a B billion dollar in
2016 that's up 53% from a year earlier
that's massive that's huge the amount of
money flowing out of China directly into
real estate Investments
the US was the most popular destination
for the second most or second
consecutive year uh drawing in 14
billion of investments
just the amount of land
businesses real estate that are being
purchased by Chinese in the US is
absolutely huge now they're not the only
ones of course you could see as the
other half is being purchased elsewhere
then you got Hong Kong Malaysia
Australia the UK was ranked Fifth and it
goes on but those are just some of the
markets you have to understand that
money has been
flowing significantly into Vancouver
specifically not necessarily all of
Canada but primarily number one
Vancouver so let's look at this for
moment
here Chinese real estate buyers are
suddenly descending on the Seattle
region some are lured by perceptions the
coastal cities a bargain others by warm
memories of the movie that was filmed
there but the biggest draw is the
decision of the BC government to impose
a 15% tax on foreign buyers of Lower
Mainland residential real estate
it's big news to see that imposing a 15%
tax had a direct response in the amount
of people that are purchasing land there
or or
property this data was from this website
the guy.com which showed internet
searches in China for Vancouver real
estate were down
37% in December from the same time a
year ago it also mentions the fact that
in Seattle those uh percentages are up
significantly I believe it's like over
100% there so more searches are going on
to uh basically purchase these
properties in Seattle they're reasonably
close together and at the same time for
a foreign investor I mean you just you
don't necessarily care that much it's an
in investment you just want to buy the
property and make a profit that's simply
the way it goes so whether you buy it in
Vancouver or whether you buy it in
Seattle to you it might not make much of
a difference if you're an individual
living and working and everything else
in China that's what's happening and I
see it having a direct
effect let's move on to this article out
of the Wall Street Journal the
provincial government says the tax
policy is aimed at making homes in the
city more affordable for local residents
who have seen prices soar by nearly
50% over the past 3 years nobody
nobody nobody can keep up with
50% rise in your home price every 3
years it's literally impossible your
wages don't even come close to being
able to deal with that if you weren't in
the market
you would be out of the market I assure
you that's why more people are renting
but at the same time rental prices are
going up it's a trap it's squeezing
people out so what do you do you
downsize you have to get properties that
are probably too small for you or a
little uncomfortable or you can move
further away but that means more driving
that means more commuting that means
less time to do what you want to do this
is also interesting here the city of
Vancouver also introduced a separate
vacancy tax of 1% on the assessed value
of an empty property once again trying
to get people to not necessarily
speculate buy homes wait for them to
rise in value then sell them back in the
market they want people who you know are
going to live in them to be buying them
so it's interesting the way that they
are tackling this here and as an
investor you know you look way out your
options and if you think it's going to
be too expensive to buy in Vancouver
well you're simply going to move your
money elsewhere and that is what is
happening the moves have had a chilling
effect this talks about basically uh the
web searches in
here and you'll know that
um what we can assume is that this will
continue as long as they have this 15%
foreign buyer tax we can expect that
less money there's always going to be
that need for it but less money will
find its way towards Vancouver and start
to uh go into other markets and and
that's the intention that was the
intention it seems to have definitely
worked you can't have this Rising
forever and the people who live there
are really getting punished I mean
that's just the way it is but it's uh
seems to be hurting people that's all
I'm I'm noting House Hunters intern
National new taxes of Vancouver appear
to be driving the Chinese home buyers to
Seattle which led the US in home price
growth in
November definitely you can see that you
know they're showing the web searches
again but home price growth on the right
side changed from a year earlier you can
see this definite
increase it's much higher in Seattle
than the rest of the US and I believe it
has uh definitely something to do with
this
Switching gears just a little bit
here whenever there's government
intervention there's always failure I
mean that's one of the main themes from
my book The Money GPS is the failure of
government and this is one very good
example you may disagree that's
fine I'm not going to cover any
particular points from this but
basically it says this to California
residents who are living in San
Francisco right here let's try to get
that your community college is now
free so basically free
education Community College
level as long as you live
there and it's similar to I believe I
covered it here on the channel last
month New York Governor saying that he's
going to provide free tuation to any
residents whose families earn less than
$125,000 per
year
now it sounds good now what you can say
is that people with these
educations are going to be able to uh
get good jobs this is the the theory
anyway they're going to be able to get
good jobs that will of course boost the
economy if they could couldn't afford it
then they would have to take a lower
paying job ultimately they wouldn't be
able to spend so much in the economy
look we
need things very uh highly skilled
individuals like just as an example
surgeons obviously very very crucial
every city needs
these highly skilled
people and you know if they're starting
out in an unfortunate situation they
won't be able to AFF
that so I would say that you know you
look at it that way surely this is a
great thing but who pays for it it's not
free let's let's be clear about that
it's not free education it's free for
the person getting it but technically
when they have to pay taxes they're
paying for that nothing in life is free
and this is just one example you can't
have the government stick their nose
into everything you have over a trillion
ion Dollar in student loans right now
this is one of the biggest bubbles
around and doing something like this is
simply going to blow up these bubbles
bigger and bigger and bigger and
ultimately it's going to be like Fanny
May and Freddy Mack on the backs of the
taxpayer for the foreseeable
future this here pissed me off like you
wouldn't believe and I've read about
these so many times I don't like
covering
it but I just I had to
here we
go this lady
decides that her children are not
learning in school she felt the school
system was failing them she decides I'm
going to homeschool my kids and she said
that she spoke to the um homeschooling
coordinator and said okay the kids are
your responsibility now you have to
teach them okay cool no problem so
things took a turn
when she said A week later
CPS Child pedophilia Services I mean uh
Child Protective Services called
wondering why her kids weren't in school
I told them that my kids were
homeschooled now and I would furnish the
documents if they needed to see them no
problem right she has the paperwork she
spoke to the school everything's all
good nothing to worry about except for
the fact that less than a month later
later she was confronted by child
pedophilia work child uh protective uh
services that that's right workers and
police they told her they had a court
order to take steal her children and
when she told them no she was arrested
for
obstruction arrested for
obstruction because she wanted to keep
her own children in her own home home
and wanted to homeschool her children on
her own because she felt that they were
not getting the education that they
deserved and look what
happened this is
very very
sinful and this type of thing happens
all the time
now you may see in a month from now she
goes through the the course and
everything else she gets her kids back
so the kids were in these foster care
facilities let's say they were there for
two months okay but they get them back
and everything's just fine afterwards
you can't do that and the whole purpose
of this is to try and teach people a
lesson that the state is God and that's
what they're trying to push on you and I
and it pisses me
off let's move on
I didn't know this but my friends in
Norway if you're
listening please speak up about this I
found this very interesting I just
wanted to bring it to you the rest of
the subscribers how much does my
neighbor my colleague and the leader of
my country and his wife earn in Norway
the champion of transparency that
information is available to all just a
few clicks
away you basically can figure out or
find out on their Norwegian Tax
Administration how much people are
making and everything all these details
are available
publicly and I just thought it was
interesting I wanted to know what you
guys think particularly those in Norway
if you could speak to this it's totally
different than what we see in most other
countries in fact almost everyone that
I've ever heard
of and I just thought the transparency
is very
unique and I wondering if you think it's
a good thing or not I don't know I'm I'm
not giving my opinion I just want to
know what you think that's all if you
found this video informative please give
me a thumbs up last but not least if you
found the video informative I know you
will find my book The Money GPS even
more informative so check this out you
can actually flip through the book just
go over to Amazon they have look inside
feature that will allow you to flip
through the pages of the book and see if
you like it take care